I've switched countless PMAX campaigns
to standard shopping with improved
performance and it's fairly simple, but
there are few mistakes I see happen all
the time, especially if you're not used
to making the switch. So, stick with me
and in this video I'll show you how to
diagnose your current setup, transition
without killing your ROS, and avoid the
three most typical reasons I see
agencies fail when switching from PMAX
to standard travel. So, let's get into
it.
Number
one, before making any moves, you need
to understand what's actually driving
results in your PMAX campaign. This will
be important to avoid the top reasons
why switching will fail that I cover at
the end of this video. To begin with, we
have three things to look out for before
making the switch to standard shopping.
Checkpoint number one is you need to
pull up your channel breakdown. Doesn't
matter if you use a script or you look
inside of Google Ads with the new
channel breakdown report. You just need
to go into your PMAX reporting and look
at where your conversions and your spend
is coming from. You'll see search,
shopping, YouTube, display, Gmail, maybe
even a bit of discover. Here's the most
important thing. If shopping is doing
all the heavy lifting, then you're
probably fine to switch. You're not
probably fine. You're definitely fine to
switch. But if search is a significant
portion of your conversions, like I show
here, then you need to dig deeper. And
I'll have more on that later in the
video. When it comes to YouTube and
display, if again, if you barely see
anything there, then you're fine with
moving from PMX to standard shopping.
But if they're pulling in any solid
conversions, you don't just drop them.
Plan for either standalone YouTube and
display campaigns to take over that load
or retain your Pass campaign, but
without any product listings. In most
scenarios, you'll see most spend goes to
shopping anyways. And then you just need
to do a little bit of check to make sure
what is spent is actually happening in
search which coincides with checkpoint
number two. You need to check if your
branded keywords are included in PMAX.
This is critical. You want to know how
much of your ROS is coming from branded
terms in both search and shopping. That
breakdown matters a lot for setting the
correct ROS target once you transition
to standard shopping. And I can't I
really can't emphasize this stage
enough. This is where most people get it
wrong. And I'll show you a failsafe way
to get around this. If you haven't
already excluded brands from a PMAX
campaign, then I'll show you my fail
proof foolproof foolproof way of getting
around it. Checkpoint number three. If
you're getting fewer than 100
conversions per month inside of PMAX, be
careful. If you're under 30, you're
basically flying blind trying to make
the switch. The algorithm will have
basically nothing to work with when you
switch to standard shopping, and it
isn't going to magically outperform.
You'll have the same problem. and it
actually will have an even bigger
problem because you don't have search
and shopping together. So, you'll remove
the data even further. There are two
cases where I'd still go ahead with the
switch even though you don't have a lot
of conversions. Number one, if you're
switching proactively to grow shopping
volume and you understand the risks,
then go for it. Just keep your
expectations in check. This isn't a
magic bullet. It might not work. But if
you're doing it because hm we're
overspending in search or display or
video anywhere else and shopping is
actually looking pretty good but for
some reason Pmax isn't scaling that
channel then moving to standalone
shopping is that's the reason why we're
doing this. The second case is if you're
cleaning up a bloated campaign and
removing products that barely convert.
So again, if you take look at your top
100 products, you remove the top five
that aren't converting, but they are
spending, then taking all these these
products that aren't converting and
moving into another campaign and
retaining 80 90% of your conversions in
your main standard shopping campaign is
still a good move. The only thing I just
want to say, look at the split up of
conversions across shopping and search.
If you're having 100 conversions and
it's like 7030 or 6040, that combination
might be why Pmax is working because you
have shopping and you have search
together and you're aggregating the data
and that might make it actually work. It
it might be tough to scale, but that
might be why it's working. Actually,
just doing some kind of work and
switching to standalone search and
shopping might not work at all, but it
might be great. So, the second thing
that we want to look at is campaign
structure and what campaign structure to
choose. So, this video is about how to
transition from PMAX to standard
shopping. It's not how to choose your
ideal campaign structure, but I still
wanted to touch on it just because a
successful switch to standard shopping
is all about finding the right campaign
structure. The core concept we have here
is that we want to match our structure
to our marketing strategy. So, again, if
you're having a pretty basic e-commerce
store where you have some best
bestsellers and you have some normal
products, that might where you want to
go. If you have a DDC brand, you might
want to choose a hero campaign and then
another campaign for add-ons. If you're
running some sort of price monitoring,
you might want to have a price
sensitivity split or price monitoring
split where you have a campaign for all
the products that are priced
competitively and another campaign for
products that are not priced
competitively. Now, again, I don't want
to go into all details with all this. We
have another video and another master
class on this, but I just want to say
don't over complicate the campaign
strategy. Choose the simplest setup that
matches your marketing strategy and
adhere to the minimum conversions I've
mentioned early in this video. Again,
minimum of 100 conversions per campaign.
I'd like to get up to 300. So, that's
kind of where you are. You can always
expand the campaign structure in the
future. One of the advantages of
standard shopping is how easy it is to
test different campaign structures in
the future. Now, let's talk about how to
actually make the transition. So, for
the first part, campaign target and
budget. If your Pmax doesn't include
branded search, then just copy the same
ROS target from PMAX to your standard
shopping campaign and start spending. I
would say careful with matching the
budget. If you have like a budget of
$1,000 per day, but you're only spending
$500, then match the spend. Or if you
need to be extra cautious, start at 50%
of your average daily PMX spend as your
standard shopping budget and then start
increasing over time. If you do have
brand included in Pmax, this is what I
teased earlier. This is where people
will mess up. We'll spend a little bit
of time talking about this part. You now
need to break out your non-brand rowers
and your brand rowers before even
thinking about setting a target. So
again, you want to go in, you want to
look at search terms, want to see what's
the branded versus non-branded split and
figure out what's the row for brand,
what's the ROS for non-brand. At the
time of this writing, we can't split the
the search terms data up in shopping and
search. So you're stuck having to guess
how much goes to search and shopping if
you're spending a lot on brand and PMAX.
And the key caveat here is if you're
spending a lot on brand your your PMX
that's that's a bad idea, right? But
it's also if you get a lot of conversion
value from brand, you might want to pull
the brakes on switching. Let me show you
what I would do if I was in your
situation and what we've done in in
similar situations to have a more of a
careful transition. So the way this
looks is that you start out with a 400%
row in your PMAX campaign. Now what we
do is we want to exclude the brand. What
then happens is that the brand terms for
shopping goes into our standard shopping
campaign which we've created for the
purpose of course and we do the same
thing for search. So by excluding the
brand we now get a clearer idea of what
is our pmax actual rows and what way it
looks like rows will pro will most
likely go down. So it falls down to 300%
900% in the standard shopping for for
brand and 3,900 for search. That's good
because where we had it before where it
was a mixed bag in Pmax, we had a rowas
of 950 in search and 598 in shopping.
Those numbers are completely wrong look
like but the example the example still
applies. All of a sudden we'll move over
to what happens when we remove the
brand. So all of a sudden we have a lot
lower rows and that's kind of what we're
looking at. So when we're setting up
standard shopping now, we know, okay,
standard shopping shouldn't be at 400%
ROS target, it should be at 300%. You
get what I'm saying? So by this part, we
actually know exactly how much our
nonbrand shopping is supposed to be from
a ROS perspective. And that's kind of
what we're trying to do here. Trying to
find the exact target to set for
standard shopping and not just have a
mixed target for every. Now, I just
wanted to just quickly go through some
campaign settings and standard shopping
because it can be a little bit daunting.
I feel it's simpler these days in PMAX,
but I can see where it can be brand new
for some people. So, just just do a
quick two-minute walk through. So, from
a conversion goal perspective, you want
to just do account default or whatever
you normally do from a campaign
perspective. Don't mess with custom
acquisition. Don't mess with value
rules. The merchant is the same as in
Pmax. Feeds, same thing as in as in
Pmax. Inventory filter, we normally
don't touch it because we manage these
on a product group or ad group level. So
there's not a lot there. Bidding is the
biggest difference in in standard sh and
pmax. We don't want to have a target at
the campaign level. We want to have a
portfolio target. So either we can
create a brand new portfolio strategy or
we can use an existing where we group
some product some campaigns together.
But in any case, we want to use
portfolios from the get- go because that
way it allows us to use minimum and
maximum bets and give us some more
options to be flexible in the future,
especially if we break up into multiple
campaigns. More on that in our standard
shopping video. So budget is fairly
similar. I typically like to use shared
budgets if we have multiple campaigns
because it ensures that if one campaign
is limited by budget, then it doesn't
then the search terms and stuff like
that doesn't go over to the other
campaign. I want to make sure we have a
clean split that our bidding and our
campaign priorities cover. So shared
budgets is best if you're not just
having one campaign. This is crucial if
you're using any form of non-brand and
brand split. on a campaign priority
setting. Just make sure like if you have
one campaign, this doesn't matter at all
whatsoever. This is internally in the
account. If two products match the same
search term, then the product with the
with the highest bid and the highest
priority will get the click. If you have
multiple campaigns, we're going through
this in a standard shopping video for
how to actually do this, but I just want
to mention it in here. We normally have
search partners enabled just because we
rarely see wasted spend in shopping for
search partners. So we usually have it
just enabled until we have proof of
otherwise. Everything else is as you
know the ad rotation has no impact
whatsoever. I don't know why it's a set
setting in standard shopping. Now when
it comes to actually transitioning from
PMAX over standard shopping, there are
two good ways to do it. Option A is the
gradual campaign overlap. And this is my
personal go-to. You launch your standard
shopping campaigns. You run them in
parallel with PMAX for one to two weeks.
And after one to two weeks, you're most
likely seeing that there's not a lot of
spend going into standard shopping. If
there's a lot of spend, you were
absolutely missing out. And moving to
standard shopping will be great. But
most likely, you're not going to see
that much spend in standard shopping.
10% or something like that. So now what
we need to do is you need to force more
spend into standard shopping by making
Pmax lower it bids. The best way to do
this is by increasing the royal target
on Pmax. So in week one we have a 500%
row as target on both campaigns. Then we
start switching over. So Pmax goes up to
550. Then the following week 600 then
700 and we stay at 700. And we'll most
likely start seeing more and more spend
goes over to standard shopping. And once
you're at the 50/50 mark, switch over to
standard shopping. Do not attempt fate
by letting this run for much longer
ways. Split the data in between multiple
campaigns. no matter how good it looks,
switch over and let it let stand
shopping take it from here. That's what
it's supposed to be. Option B is the
inventory based migration. Like again,
if you have got a massive catalog,
thousands upon thousands upon products,
you can migrate in phases like 20% of
your SKUs at a time. And the way we do
this is it looks slightly complicated.
It's not always a week toe process. You
have always have a little bit of an
overlap. So you start at 100% then you
go and 100% pmax 20% in standard
shopping in terms of number of products
then you remove the products from stand
that you have in standard shopping for
pmax in the following phase and now you
do do 8040 6040 60 40 60 40 80 zero to
100%. So it sounds slightly complicated,
but what we're trying to do is we're
always trying to have one overlap of
where there is the same 20% products in
both campaigns and then we turn them off
from PMAX. I get a question a lot.
Should you start standard shopping with
a lower ROS target? And in my
experience, there are two buckets. If
you have more than 500 conversions per
month and if you have less than 500
conversions per month in the first
bucket, if you have more than 500
conversions per month, then you don't
need to set a lower row target. it
typically just works. But if you have
less than 500 conversions per month,
then you're safer setting a 10 to 20%
lower ROS target to ensure it gets
traction to begin with, especially if
you can afford it. There's also a lot of
other advantages with starting out at
lower ROS target. Typically, if you got
a lot of data, it's not necessary to do
in the beginning, though. Now, there's
three main reasons, and this is the part
I've been teasing this entire video.
There's three main reasons why you get a
lower performance after switching from
PMAX to standard shopping. So I'll start
from the bottom up. Number three, your
ROS target is just wrong. It doesn't
align with the performance from your
non-brand shopping inside your PMAX.
This is the main problem. This can also
be on a channel breakdown. It can also
be on different. It can be that you
missed having okay there was a lot of s
performance from search. It means that
you didn't get a DSA campaign and all
these things that we've already talked
about. You have a couple of options
here. You need to revisit your brand
versus non-brand performance. And you
need to set the proper targets. If you
can't do all this, try to just lower
your target on on your standard shopping
campaign. It works pretty well. And then
go back, revisit your channel breakdown.
Did you miss any conversions from any
channels? Most likely this is search.
There are six different channels. Search
and shopping are the ones where we get
the most amount of conversions in Pmax.
Just go back and review it. Did you
check it? Number two reason is that you
have simply just too few conversions to
train new campaigns. Again, anything
below 100 conversions per month is very
tricky in my opinion. There's a couple
of caveats here. If you started during
your lowest point of the year, then you
might just need to try again later in
the year where you have more
conversions. Another reason for having
too few conversions is you've split your
campaigns too much. Here you need to go
back to a simpler campaign structure to
consolidate your data and make sure that
Google has something to work with.
Number one is you chose the wrong
campaign structure. It's that simple.
You probably thought some of these
campaign structures sounded awesome, so
you tried it out, but it's too
complicated. You split the data out too
much or it's not really aligned with
what performs in Google. There is a
difference between what happens to your
marketing strategy and what works in
Google. So, in this case, preferably try
to just simplify first. Just have a
simple campaign structure with standard
shopping. And once you've gained like a
20% better performance from when you
were running with PMAX, now you can try
more complicated campaign structure. The
second question I get a lot is, can you
run both PMAX and standard shopping? And
no, not in the way that most people try
or that most people actually want to.
What works is if you have a PMAX with a
non-brand and a standard shopping
campaign and a brand setup or if you
have a Pmax where that's your main
campaign and standard shopping works as
just as a 5 to 10% fall back for G gaps
that PMAX isn't covering. But it doesn't
work for running the same products to
test what wins. You just end up
splitting the data and killing both
campaigns because Google thrives on
consolidated data and learning. So to
summarize what we've learned today,
don't switch from PMAX to standard
shopping without doing your homework.
Look at the actual branded versus
non-brand conversions and understand
what volume you're working with. So set
the proper targets. Second thing is to
choose a campaign structure that
reflects how you run your business and
that aggregates as many conversions in
as few campaigns as possible. And three,
when you make the switch, do it
gradually. Either overlap for a couple
of weeks or move the inventory in
chunks. That was it for me. Comment if
you've made the switch or you need any
help or if you any questions for how to
do this. Don't forget to subscribe for
no BS Google Ads advice. If you're into
practical PPC insights that you can
actually help you, then subscribe. I
share tips, breakdowns, and call out
what's working and what's not. No fluff,
just the stuff that you can use every
single week.